---
layout: post
title:  "AppSec week 14 in summary"
date:   2023-04-07 19:00:00 +0300
categories: newsletter
keywords: "newsletter, AppSec, Application Security"
---

Friday 7th of April edition

## News


### US online tax service efile.com hit by javascript attack

A malicious actor manipulated a javascript library on efile.com, a tax reporting service in the US. The library "popper.js" that was hosted on the domain and originally displays popups in browsers, was altered to include base64 encoded malicious code. When the victims visited the efile.com domain their browsers would then contact an external domain and in some cases download malicious files.  The approach of manipulating  javascript libraries reminds a lot of magecart-style attacks, although in this case the end goal is different.

You can find the description of the attack and a technical analysis below:

[Attack description](https://isc.sans.edu/diary/Supply%20Chain%20Compromise%20or%20False%20Positive%3A%20The%20Intriguing%20Case%20of%20efile.com%20%5Bupdated%20-%20confirmed%20malicious%20code%5D/29708?ref=appsecguy.se)

[Technical analysis of the attack](https://isc.sans.edu/diary/Analyzing+the+efilecom+Malware+efail/29712?ref=appsecguy.se)


### NPM affected by flood of malicious packages

Adversaries are continuously leveraging package managers like npm to launch various types of attacks, such as crypto scam campaigns, spam campaigns and to deliver malware. Malicous packages are published on npm by automated scripts resulting in some cases several thousands of malicious new listings within a few hours. As a result of this adversarial behavior and the spike of new malicous packages, npm was not reachable at times.
Flood of malicious packages results in NPM registry DoS - Help Net Security
Attackers are exploiting the NPM registry to deliver malware and scams, and inadvertently launching a DoS against the service.

[Help Net SecurityZeljka Zorz](https://www.helpnetsecurity.com/2023/04/05/flood-of-malicious-packages-results-in-npm-registry-dos/?ref=appsecguy.se)

<br>

## Also this week

The Finnish parliament website affected by [DDoS attack](https://computersweden.idg.se/2.2683/1.778053/finska-riksdagens-sajt-drabbat-av-overbelastningsattack?ref=appsecguy.se).

An interesting [writeup](https://infosec.exchange/@doyensec/110152657254428809?ref=appsecguy.se) by Doyensec about the CSRF bypass found in Sveltekit.
